# Thesis
This thesis was submitted with original research articles belonging to the same subject area: the development of an improved framework for tractography reconstruction of white matter fibers based on diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging and its implementation in the study of structural connectivity in patients with multiple sclerosis. The purpose of the first original paper was to introduce an improved tractography framework to reconstruct the optic radiations in healthy volunteers and multiple sclerosis patients. The framework combined advanced diffusion models and an automatic post-processing based on anatomical exclusion criteria. The quantitative evaluation of the optic radiation was done by comparing the final reconstruction with a histological reference data. The proposed methodology was capable to reconstruct the optic radiation with a high accuracy and reliability. Moreover, the reconstruction was possible even in the presence of tissue damage. This framework could also be applied to other tracts with complex configuration in order to reduce the presence of anatomically implausible fibers. The second article used the same methodology developed in the previous article, in order to provide more precisely reconstructions of white matter connections. We aimed to investigate changes in structural connectivity in multiple sclerosis patients and their association with attention and executive performance. The structural brain connectivity is disturbed in multiple sclerosis due to widespread impairment of white matter connections and gray matter structures. The worse attention and executive performance was related to the decrease of integrity in frontoparietal networks, deep gray nuclei and insula. Contrarily, the increased edge connectivity suggests the presence of reorganization mechanisms at the structural level. These changes could be compensatory mechanisms to the maintenance of the normal level of cognitive performance or reflect maladaptative changes. These studies developed and improved framework for tractography reconstruction, useful to evaluate the changes in brain connectivity in patients with multiple sclerosis. The strategic networks related to attention and executive performance could be used as biomarkers to detect cognitive disability and targets to assess the effect of new therapeutic interventions.
